# JumpCloud-Extension-Attribute-Grouper
Fakes JAMF-style extension attribute grouping for JumpCloud via a command, and a regularly run script pulling command results and updating the group member list based on selectable conditions.

JumpCloud only offers dynamic system groups based on a handful of limited variables. One feature you may be yearning for, if you've worked in JAMF, is the extension attribute - a custom attribute determined by any given script, from which you can then dynamically group machines. This script creates the ability to do so, albeit not all in one place. There are a few components to this: 

## The Command
The first aspect is the command in JumpCloud. This can be any script in any language, but the attribute you wish to automate grouping off of will need to be framed in ```<result></result>``` in order to separate it from any other outputs from the script. This is not dissimilar to Jamf's extension attribute functionality. Depending on your cadence of group updates, you can set this command to run at an interval that best serves your needs (e.g. daily, weekly, once). 

## The Script
This script does the big job here: it pulls down all the command results for the given commandID (the command ID from the first step above, get it from the JumpCloud command details URL when you have the command open). It then will parse out the most recent results per machine (as the command may have been run multiple times on each machine). It compares those results against the condition you choose. There are currently 3 built-in conditions in the script (String Comparison, Version Check, Age/Date) but you could code anything you want here. Conditions are selected as a variable ```$conditionType``` and can be reversed via the variable ```$reverseLogic```, which acts as a NOT gate for each condition type. There are other variables for expected strings/versions/dates as well as your JumpCloud credentials and the like. The code is well-commented and they should be relatively self-explanatory. 
There are also variables for group options - this can be tied to an existing group, or it can create a new group. The new group can be given a name, if not it is named automatically with a timestamp. If no groupID is provided, a new group will be created automatically. There is also the option of ```$clearGroupRoster``` which defaults to True. If this is set to False, the group becomes additive, but computers no longer meeting the logical condition are not removed. For typical dynamic grouping, it should be set to True. 

## Automating the Group
The best way to run this for continous dynamic group updates would be to code an instance of the script per group (make sure you're making Static groups in JumpCloud), and set it to run regularly via ```cron``` or the like. Make sure your script cadence and JumpCloud Command cadence are somewhat coordinated, although end user machines may run commands later if they are offline at the scheduled time. The command runs regularly, the script updates the group regularly, and while not quite at the speed or simplicity of Jamf's extension attribute function, we should be able to decently fake a dynamic group for almost any scriptable result.
